hi thank you so I thought you know when
I was in I know there's a lot of
founders in the audience and a lot of
future founders and I remember when I
did the seed rounds for card in the
series a I had never seen a pitch stack
that had worked so it's kind of flying
blind so I thought it'd be helpful to
maybe just share our pitch deck so you
could see if you go into raising capital
you could kind of see a pitch stack that
has worked and it says Series C this is
actually at the time we hadn't announced
the D but this is actually our series D
pitch deck and this deck and sort of
ancestors of the deck in total raised
about 150 million bucks
so so it's it's been a good deck and
I'll go through it verbatim so I'll give
you all the numbers there'll be no kind
of standardization you'll get the the
rated-r version of our pitch deck so all
right with that I'll just get started so
the problem that we identified that we
wanted to solve was around this question
why is it true that I can by General
Electric stock for seven bucks online
click a button everything's easy and
seamless electronic but if I'm investing
in two founders in a garage there's it
costs twenty thousand dollars and legal
fees there's a bunch of paperwork and I
literally may get a paper stock
certificate to hold this proof of
ownership until the IPO so why does the
world work that way and our solution to
this was we needed a central registry a
database of private assets we just
wanted to know what people owned and so
the hard part of building this database
there's this intuition the database
would be valuable the hard part is how
do you populate this database and our
idea was let's give issuers a really
simple way to get a security from point
A to point B and in exchange for that
service they would then tell us who owns
that security so is you marry a hundred
shares of Carta stock I now know
he owns that hundred shares and I put it
in our database so that's that's what we
built
so we issue online stock option grants
RSU LLC units we have about fourteen or
fifteen different security types that we
issue it's growing every day as more and
more financial engineering happens in
the private world we automate the the
approval compliance of these securities
so if it's a Delaware corporation you
know it's the the secretary and
treasurer or president that have to sign
it if it's California it's the treasurer
and then we issue the security to
shareholder and all of the securities
put in a table is the cap table it's the
capital structure of the company who
owns the company and then of course on
the other side of the market when every
investor or employee receives their
shares or options we're now building out
their portfolio so we're tracking their
portfolio and that's the product to
really understand what we do we're kind
of known as a cap table company or a
four nine a company but to really
understand what we do all we do is this
simple atomic unit of getting a security
from point A to point B and everything
else is a feature that derives on that
that fundamental one piece of work that
we do so if you look at it from this
issuing angle there's this network
effect that starts to develop we bring a
company on the platform we issue
securities to all their investors and
employees the investors receive the
security on Carta hopefully they have a
good experience and then they start
referring more companies to the platform
those companies bring more investors and
so on in the the virtuous cycle starts
so it has a strong network effect in the
customer acquisitions strategy and the
virality of it and then it also has a
network defense ability effect so at
maturity because the only thing worse
than a VC getting a paper stock
certificate in a Carta world is getting
an electronic certificate from a
competitor because now they'll their
portfolio will forever be broken into
two they'll have to log into two
different accounts to see their
inventory to see their investments
so it develops a very strong Network
moat or network monopoly for us
interestingly VCS also have a cap table
through their LPS the investors of the
the venture funds and so we do the same
thing so we issue the membership
interests from the VCS to the LPS and it
has a very similar network effect the
LPS learn about us as they get accounts
hopefully they like us they refer more
venture funds to us which bring more LPS
on and on and on and what's interesting
about the second network monopoly effect
is that it reinforces the first one
there concentric moats built around each
other because the more companies I have
the more funds I have the more LPS I
have and vice-versa and then you just
keep going you kind of notice a pattern
here I start with a company I drill up
to the VC I drill up to the LP and I can
keep going so we can drill up from LPS a
lot of LPS like endowments are asset
allocators and so they'll invest venture
is just a piece of the portfolio they'll
invest in private equity oil and gas and
we can drill back down into their
investments via the ownership graph that
we're starting to map out and pull those
assets on a Carta as well
you can drill out a p/e all the way to
broader private companies around the
world everything from the Cargill's the
largest private company in the world to
you know the manufacturing plant in
Illinois that's owned by as a family
business you can keep drilling and
pulling this thread further and further
into the public markets which also have
the same equity management and share
tracking problem and then of course if
you can get there you can drill all the
way into real estate which is the
largest fractional ownership problem in
the world so that's what we've been
working on how are we doing today so
kartaa at a glance we're about five or
seven offices were about five hundred
employees we ended 2018 at just shy of
50 million
in ARR we about 700,000 shareholders on
the platform at about 10,000 customers
annual recurring revenue over the last
eight quarters we started the year we
started 2016 at 2 million in ARR we went
to 7 in 2017 I'm sorry 2015 a 16 went
from 2 to 7 16 to 17 we went from 7 to
23 and then this last year in oh wait
the 2018 we went from 23 to 50 49 and
change ok forecast and planned for 2019
is about double that subscription
customers grew correspondingly we have a
little over 10,000 customers today we
add about 400 new customers a month we
expect that to end this year adding
somewhere between 650 and 700 new
customers a month as we go deeper into
the network we're able to exert more
pricing power as the brand strengthens
and our control the market deepens and
so we've started exert more prices
particularly at the enterprise level
more pricing power and we're hitting
this inflection point now where we're
moving from a price taker to a price
maker
our payback period has grown to 19
months we target an 18-month payback
period you'll notice back in q4 and most
of 2017 we ran at a payback period of
about 12 months by design we were very
efficient this payback periods
calculated on a on a subscription or a
gross margin basis so we look at fully
loaded costs into the payback period but
for those maybe that that aren't
familiar with it the payback period is
if it cost me $5,000 to acquire a new
customer when do I get that money back
when does that customer pay for itself
in finding that customer and so 12
months means we get our money back in 12
months but this is calculator and on
subscription gross gross margin or sorry
gross margin as well as on gap revenue
but our cash cycle is a little better so
the first thing a company does when they
sign up is they connect their bank
account to Carta and we need that
because we need their bank account to
deposit the option exercises into and so
the first thing we do when they get we
get their ace we get ACH rights into
their bank account as we pull our
payment and so our cash cycle is
actually 48 hours our AR is 48 hours so
we acquire a customer for 5,000 bucks we
hook them up and they pay us the 5,000
bucks 48 hours later and then we can
reinvest it to acquire a new customer
that means that when we raise equity
capital we don't really have to raise
equity capital for gross to fund sales
and marketing we really can raise it
only for for R&D primarily however and
you'll notice we spiked up in 2018 221
ish to eight somewhere around 18 to 21
months of pay back and that was
deliberately by design we had raised
their Series C of 42 million bucks in q3
of 2017 and then we decided to step on
the gas a little bit so we invested more
heavily in sales and marketing drove
that payback period up we'd like to
continue targeting an 18-month payback
period
over the next 12 months we have over
half a million shareholders we add today
on the order of 40 to 50,000 new
shareholders a month with those 400
companies and that Sheriff sir let's
shareholder count is one of our most
important KPIs because when you think
about expanding the network the the two
most important things we want to
accomplish is when we issue a new
security we want to find a new owner of
an asset and pull them into the network
so we're acquiring a new node and then
we also want to strengthen an edge an
edge by issuing a security to an
existing node and the more securities
that an existing node has in our network
the stronger the bond the tighter the
bond we actually find in the venture
world if we have about a third of the
portfolio companies of a venture fund on
the platform that's the tipping point
that's when the fun goes all in they
start putting us in terms and they start
pushing all of their investors on the
platform all right
so let me give you a couple last
thoughts to think about or maybe another
way to understand our business we have
this view of how labor has evolved over
time and it started with forced unpaid
labor and moved into serfdom which was a
where you were legally free but you were
economically indentured to work on on
the land that you were allowed overtime
that evolved into the current era of
labor which is payroll and we think the
next era of equity compensation is
equity payroll is a debt product and
this is in fact this is how we explain
the income inequality gap there's a lot
of explanations but we have our own
perspective on it which is a payroll is
a debt product equity as a capital
product and so debt accumulates linearly
with coupon payments equity and capital
accumulation entually
and so that means is in any economy
that's growing any economy where GDP is
growing capital accumulates
exponentially and it's faster than the
accumulation of debt wealth which is
linear and that's why when employees are
on the payroll stack and capital and
owners on the equity stack the owners
get richer faster than wait than the
workers and so our contribution to
figuring out the wealth income gap is to
move more labor out of the debt stack
and into the equity stock we think in 50
years our hope in 50 years that that
generation will look back at our
generation and say can you believe you
used to go work for a company and all
you got was cash and so that's what we
do we make it really easy for companies
like uber to issue equity to 75,000
drivers Cargill the largest private
company in the world they have a hundred
thirty thousand employees five hundred
of the executives at headquarters have
stock options and so when we talk to
them we say what if you could issue
equity to all of your employees as
simply cheaply and easily as you do
payroll
Chesky is already on record where he
wants to figure out how to give equity
to 700,000 Airbnb hosts there's no
facility for doing that today and that's
what we're building for the ability to
do that so in that framework of how do I
make equity and ownership ubiquitous let
me go back to this database model that I
started with so you remember this is a
registry of assets but it's really the
platform for getting a security from
point A to point B if you think about
we're tracking Catherine owns a hundred
shares of Carta and we're sticking those
entries into our database there's two
windows or two lenses into this database
the first is grouped by issuer so who
owns a company and that's the stock
ledger also known as the cap table same
thing the other window is the portfolio
what do I own this probably doesn't look
familiar to most of you but some of you
who are financial infrastructure people
this looks really familiar in the public
market the ledger is called a transfer
agent like a computer share or an ASP
anybody that's worked for a public
company will know this these are SEC
registered companies and their job in
the public world in the private world a
company can keep their own cap table in
the public world a company can't it's a
conflict of interest between the company
and the shareholders and so there's
these large companies called transfer
agents that track the stock Ledger's of
Apple IBM GE the top three are is a
combined market cap of about 20 billion
bucks and that's all they do is be a
transfer agent on the other side of this
market or the the other window is
grouped by shareholder what do I own and
that's the brokerage that's a Schwab or
a fidelity or an e Trade a way for
participants in a marketplace to track
what they own
and interact in the market itself and
then the database itself is the
Depository Trust Corporation it's
probably the the largest company you've
never heard of the DTC is the big
company in New York with massive
machines and databases and they do
central clearing of US equities so if I
sell Bob a hundred shares of General
Electric stock that's the database that
gets updated it's the central settlement
platform and it's literally just a
database that gets us security from
point A to point B so when you look at
it through this lens we started with the
network lens if you look at it through
this data infrastructure lens it looks a
lot like the public markets and it's the
three components you need to power a
stock market you need a transfer agency
you need a brokerage and you need a
clearinghouse and that's what working on
now is the car to exchange a private
stock market we pull this thread a
little further if you believe my thesis
that N equals that this is an N equals
one market there is one and only one
winner the network effect will create a
platform where no other company can
exist and hopefully the company that
does exist and owns the network is us
that means we have all of the private
companies and the IPOs of 2023 are
series B companies on carta today that
means we're the on-ramp to IPO so we can
help take these companies public so on
the transfer agent side the conversation
is mr. mrs. CFO you've been a customer
with us for seven years you know us well
we're an SEC registered transfer agent
you don't have to go do a computer share
or at ast implementation just stay with
us and we'll take you public we'll flip
the switch for you
similarly on the other side mr. mrs. CFO
we already have your equity plan all of
your employees have a private brokerage
account with us you don't need to do an
e trade or a fidelity implementation we
can flip the switch and take your
employees public as well and they can
trade in and out of the cart of public
brokerage and then last we're filing our
form one is the card is card a public
exchange in the last 30 years there's
only been one public exchange bill to
IEX
the challenge that all the exchanges
have is how do you get more listings
it's really hard to pull an existing
listing off of a national exchange and
pull it onto your own nobody wants to
leave NY ac once they're on but our
secret is we have all the listings we
have the pipeline of IPOs and so those
50 to 70 IPOs a year will come through
Carta and the conversation is exactly
the same you've been trading on the
Carta private stock market will flip the
switch and you'll be on the card of
public stock market if we captured the
50 or 60 IPOs a year we'd have 10% of
the public market in five years
so why do we care about owning each of
these components of the financial
infrastructure ecosystem for a capital
market well let me give you sort of a
comparison here the top three exchanges
in North America are TMX the Toronto
Stock Exchange their TMX owns the
Toronto Stock Exchange their mark haps
about three billion bucks they trade at
Forex revenue Nasdaq which is worth
about 15 billion trades also at around
Forex revenue and then ice which ice
owns the New York Stock Exchange as well
as a few other secondary exchanges and
they're worth about 44 billion they
trade a little higher at 7 7 X revenue
so the CME Group is sort of this
interesting large company that some
people have heard of that people don't
really understand the CME Group is the
largest derivatives trader or a
marketplace in the US and they own the
entire ecosystem they own both the
Clearinghouse the record-keeping of all
of the products of financial products
derivatives that they sell and they also
own her access into the marketplace it's
not a decentralized broker network that
you that they work through you go
straight to the CME Group to participate
in their marketplace they own both the
transfer agent the brokerage and the
settlement platform CME Group alone is
worth more than the top three exchanges
in the United and the United States
combined they trade at 17 X revenue they
trade at SAS multiples even though it's
a transaction company and the reason is
they own the ecosystem when you own the
financial infrastructure when you own
that ecosystem the sum is greater than
the parts and that's why we want to own
it all
interestingly this is a global problem
in 1933 when they passed the Securities
Exchange Act they moved all the publicly
registered securities into the public
markets and all the private stuff stayed
in contract law and paperwork and that's
why we financed a you know a crypto
company today the same way we financed
the railroads but every country after
that followed the u.s. model and so you
go to Japan the Tokyo Stock Exchange the
London Stock Exchange the Australian
Stock Exchange all of them have the same
financial market infrastructure in the
public world and then the same contract
law and paperwork and the private so so
another way of thinking about us is
we're a vacuum company we're going
around vacuuming up all the securities
held in paper in the United States and
then we can go do that around the world
which means that it investor in the UK
can access securities in the US and
vice-versa all on one platform it it's
counterintuitive by definition a public
stock market has to be regional but a
global stock market a private stock
market could be global and so if you
take that thread one step further you
can build a private global stock market
uniting the world into one capital
market and then use that on-ramp to IPO
to replace the to build a car to
exchange in the u.s. London Australia
Tokyo where you can now displace the
existing financial infrastructure in
modern exchanges because we now have a
lock on the IPOs and you just go country
by country and on and on until you unite
the entire world on a single capital
market that makes every asset available
to every human
and that's what we do at Carta we create
owners and we replace stock markets
thanks I hope that was helpful
[Applause]